---
layout: post
title: "DBC: Week6:: Day 2"
date: 2015-05-20
categories: DBC Phase 2
---

I havn't blogged in a while, but that's because the last week of phase 2 was insane! We had a 5 hour and 30 minute exam (it was so long we were ordered pizza half way through!) Then we had to present our P10 projects on Friday. I made an app called Cockadoodle which used the Twilio API, to call people and read a text to speech script to them, which was typed by the user in advance.

<h1>Technical Learning</h1>

<ul>
<li>Rails Magic</li>


<h2>HTTParty and JSON/HTML formatting of data</h2>
Here was an action that Tom and I wrote in Rails, which did a lot of things: manly send back JSON to an AJAX call, and also perform a HTTP request to the GITHUB API, using a dotenv file. Here's the code:

{% highlight ruby %}

  def create
    headers = {"User-Agent" => ENV['USER_AGENT'],
               "Authorization" => 'token ' + ENV["AUTHORIZATION"]}
    @resp = HTTParty.get("https://api.github.com/zen",
                             :headers => headers)


    @questions = Question.order(vote_counter: :desc)
    @question = Question.new(question_params)

    respond_to do |format|
      if @question.save
        format.html { redirect_to @question, notice: 'Question successfully created.' }
        format.json { render :json => @question, :status => :created }
      else
        format.html { render action: 'index' }
        format.json { render :json => @question.errors.full_messages, :status => :unprocessable_entity }
      end
    end
  end

{% endhighlight %}


the "respond_to do |format|" block was something new which we learned today, it is used so that when the action is hit via HTML or AJAX we can respond in an appropriate way. If you wish to send data back in JSON to an Ajax call, you can put the data you wish to send after the has rocket after :json, very useful for manipulating the DOM.

Also a HTTP request can be easily made, with two arguments, the url followed by headers which is a hash containing the information needed by the API which you are hoping to access.

{% highlight ruby %}

<% if @answer %>
  <%= form_for [@question, @answer] do |f| %>

  <p>
    <%= f.label :answer %><br>
    <%= f.text_area :content %>
  </p>

  <p>
    <%= f.submit 'Submit' %>
  </p>
  <% end %>
<% end %>

{% endhighlight %}

THe above for was useful in Rails too when I was posting an answer form which belongs to a question. The syntax was important, the line [@question, @answer] I think may be necessary when you wish to send back data to your answer controller about what the question ID was for a particular answer.



<h2> Models before something methods </h2>

{% highlight ruby %}

class Question < ActiveRecord::Base
  validates :title, :content, presence: true
  has_many :answers

  before_save :default_vote_count


  def default_vote_count
    self.vote_counter ||= 0
  end

end

{% endhighlight %}

You can change how something will be saved to your database by first making a before save validation and then calling a method, which can set selfs.field_value to whatever you want it to be such as an integer or a boolean or a string. This is a useful trick!


{% highlight ruby %}

{% endhighlight %}




<li>Debugging</li>

I appreciated a great debugging principal today. Tom and I spent about 30-40 minutes looking for a bug in our code that turned out to be a spelling mistake in one of the class labels of a HTML elements. The error message we got back was not very informative so we spent a lot of time and energy looking in places in the code that didn't contain the bug.

If we started out search by the process of elimination we would have found the bug much quicker. The best thing to do is to shut down large chunks of the code, and see does the code still work. If it does then incrementally re-add features back in until the code breaks. This practice will save a lot of searching in places where the bug is not living, and it confines the search to very specific parts of the code.

The debugging principal we learned the hard way can be summarized with:

"Try and quickly rule out large areas of your code, that you know the bug can't be living. This will quicken the search for your bug!"


<li>Handlebars</li>

These were so useful when we had to basically use a template which we wanted to append to a DOM element, but the JSON data we recieved back needed to be plugged into a number of key spaces. The mustache handlebars {{}} were key, to inputting the JSON data we wanted into the DOM.

{% highlight ruby %}


<script id="question-display" type="text/x-handlebars-template">
<li> <a href="/questions/{{id}}"> {{ title }}</a>

<form method="post" action="/questions/{{id}}/upvote">
  <input type="hidden" name="_method" value="patch">
  <button class="upvote" type="submit">△</button>
</form>

<form method="post" action="/questions/{{id}}/downvote">
  <input type="hidden" name="_method" value="patch">
  <button class="downvote" type="submit">▽</button>
</form>


  <p>  {{ vote_counter }} </p>
</li>
  <p> {{ content }}</p>

</script>

{% endhighlight %}


</ul>

<h1>Cultural Learning</h1>

I really didn't realize I missed blogging so much until I wrote this post. It's so good for dumping out the thoughts you learned during the day, and reinforcing what you just learned. Plus it's hard to learn new material very late at night, hence blogging is a a great activity which I'll hope to keep up. It's the best learning tool available to me I think at this time in the day. It also helps to timebox blogs so that they are still valuable since I get a nice learning return on a small investement of time!

Also I have yet again rediscovered how important a goods night sleep is!

Lastly I talked to Sheriff over the last few weeks and we really inspired me to think about learning in a new way. He's an effective teacher and he basically makes you think about how you teach yourself.

Pick whatever works for you and don't punish yourself with a book at a certain time of the day if it's providing you with no value. The principal he's got me thinking about is that I should be more thoughtful or mindful about my learning. Having an open, curious and playful mind helps when learning something new. A sentence that he told me stuck with me in particular:

"When you read a book, say to yourself I'm going to try and learn about "x" topic for 20 minutes. Then when 20 minutes is up ask yourself, was that an effective use of my time. Am I more knowledgeable then when I started, what new stuff did I learn? Be mindful about your learning and don't punish yourself with ineffective learning techniques, they're a waste of your time!"