---
layout: post
title: "DBC: Week 2::Day 3"
date: 2015-04-15
categories: DBC blog
---

<h1> Culturally </h1>

I decided to go solo today, I missed the algorithm night too so that I could better understand CSV and how to parse data in a CSV file, with a model view controller. I felt a little bit worn down towards the end of the day. But I chatted to Taniya and I reminded myself not to be too hard on myself (super ego awareness comes in handy!). I thought, I have stuff which I need to do, but it'll get done if I keep on working like I am now, which means don't stress out! Then I felt relaxed, happy and ready to learn once more!

<h1> Technically </h1>

I read chapter 3 and 4 of POODR. My main take aways were:

<ul>
  <li>Abstract vs Concrete</li>
  When making methods in classes, it's better to depend on methods which are abstract. That means they are almost universalities. You'd rather that a gear interacts with a method called diameter, as opposed to the "concrete" example of  wheel.diameter. It means that you're code can be a lost more reusable. You can remove an external dependency and encapsulate it in it's own method.

  {% highlight ruby %}

  def gear_inches
    foo = some_intermediate_result * diameter
  end

  def diameter
    wheel.diameter
  end
  {% endhighlight %}


  <li>Managing Dependency Direction</li>
    You should depend on things that change less often then you do. When choosing within classes, which class should depend on objects and methods in other classes, it's best to let classes which change more often, to depend on classes that change less often. Concrete classes are more likely to change then abstract classes.

  <li>Factories</li>
  You can wrap an method which instantiates objects in a module. The modules can have a sole purpose which is to produce objects from another class. These are known as factories.

  <li>Managing Dependencies in a Nutshell</li>

  The main  takeaways were that you should inject dependencies to create loosely couples objects which can be resued in novel ways. You should isolate or encapuslate dependencies which will allow the dependencies to be more apperntly revealed, and will allow the application to be more flexible in the future. Depending on abstractions over concretness will also make for more futureproof applications.

  You should try and create dependencies in a way that objects depend on objects which change less often compared to the original object.


  <li>Public Interfaces</li>
  1) Will not change on a whim
  2) Are expected to be revealed to others.
  3) Reveal the classes primary responsibility.
  4) Are safe for others to depend on
  5) Are thoroughly documented in tests.

  <li>Private Interfaces</li>
  1) Handle the implementation details
  2) Should not be depended upon
  3) Will change often.
  4) Shouldn't be sent by other objects!

  <li>Asking for What instead of How</li>

  A class should ask another class what is wants. It should not know how the class carries out it's various methods and processes necessary for the final message returned to the original class. Sandi Metz writes:

  <blockquote>
    If objects were human and could describe their own relationships a bad relationship would be "I know what I want and I know how you do it", a better relationship would be "I know what I want, and I know what you do", the best relationship would be "I know what I want and I <i>trust you to do your part</i>"
  </blockquote>

  I like to think of two classes, sending methods to each other as two spies meeting in a car park and night in trench coats, sliding brief cases at one another across the floor, in the dark...that's how little they should know about each other and each other's methods!!





  <li>Public Interface Methods</li>
  They should be
  1) Be explicitly defined
  2) Take a hash for arguments
  3) Ask "what" and not "how"
  4) Have names that in so far as you can anticapte will not change.
</ul>

I also learened about a handy little method which you can make an array in ruby very quickly, it looks like this:

{% highlight ruby %}
  %w{ruby car racer five turtle}
  => ["ruby", "car", "racer", "five", "turtle"}]
{% endhighlight %}

<h2>The MVC </h2>

I learned about the useful framework called the ModelViewControler. The Model is where the data and methods is stored. The view interacts with the user and can handle user input, and can display to the user. The controller, is what guides the interactions between the model and the view. I spent most of the day creating a modelviewcontroller for a to do list application! Which I parset in CSV. It was a fun day.

<h2>Tomorrow</h2>
- Tomorrow I want to read chapter 4, 5 and 8 of POODR.
- I want to watch the video on CSV tomorrow morning which is 30 mins long.
- Then go to Yoga, take the mock test, leave feedback for my last pairing session on Tuesday!
- I also like dumping my day's thoughts into these blogs, it's very relaxing to get all you learned during the day into one place so you can solidify what you learned and then forget about keeping it all in your working memory before bed time!



