---
layout: post
title: "DBC: Phase 1, Week 2, Day 5"
date: 2015-04-13
categories: DBC Phase 1 Blog
---

<h1> Technical Learning </h1>

Today I learned about:

<ul>
  <li>Self</li>
  Self can be used on a class method, or within a class method. When self is used on a class method, it returns the object which called it, i.e. the class

  {%highlighter ruby %}
    class Person
      def self.greeting
        puts "This is self from a class method!"
        return self
      end
    end
  {% endhighlight %}

  Person.greeting will return Person.

  Self in a class method, will return the instance of the object, which called it.


  <li>Require</li>
  Require is used when you want to use the absolute path to access a file, within a file.

  Require relative is used when you want to access files relative to the current file you are within.

  <li>Classical Inheritance</li>
  I got some practice with making classes which all inherited from a super class called FruitTree. The subclasses were OrangeTree, PearTree and AppleTree.

  The main takeaway for me was that you can create a method within a super class, which can then call methods in it's subclasses. This allows variation within how apple, pear and orange trees age and grow fruit. But the method age! is common to all of the class's and it's objects because everything inherits from the super class.

  {%highlighter ruby %}
  class FruitTree

  def age!
    die_at_age
    make_fruit
    @age += 1 if alive
    increase_height
  end

  end
  {% endhighlight %}

   def age!
    die_at_age
    make_fruit
    @age += 1 if alive
    increase_height
  end



</ul>

<h1>Cultural Learning </h1>

 I felt a little off this morning, then went to the power yoga at 12:30pm. I felt so so so much better after. It literally affects how well you can relate to people. I felt so much happier and delighted to talk and work with anyone I met after that class! The power of power yoga is real!! :)







