---
layout: post
title: "DBC: Week3:: Day 7"
date: 2015-04-26
categories: DBC Phase 1
---

This week was a little more choppy then week 2 I thought. THere was the assessment on Wednesday, then I didn't get too much done on Thursday and graduation and pitches were on Friday. Also my good mate Delay arrived into San Fran and we hung out most evening after DBC, so there was been a slight silence on the blog front!

<h1> Technical Learning </h1>

This week the biggest learning curve has been to understand active record.

Out of a fist of 5 I am about a 3 at the moment and I'd like to solidify my learning this week with AR, since apparently we will be using it a lot.

We used active record to create databases, and query rows of different tables in order to access their data and write apps. Over the weekend, Nam, Andy and I made a tournament generator for a ping pong tournament.

I also used Sinatra today, which allows you to write ruby code, and display it to a server with HTML and CSS combined. This is where we are beginning to see the power of all of the Ruby we have learned during the first 3 weeks.

I feel like I am a little bit behind with regards to the course work, I've been slipping it feels like since Wednesday. I am going to make a huge effort this week to get back on track with things.

<h1> Cultural Learning </h1>

This weekend I felt a little bit bummed out for a reason that I couldn't quite put my finger on. However I am sure that if I sleep well, exercise and eat well I'll be right as rain for tomorrow. I also plan on meditating a bit more this week too at either lunch time or 6, depending. I will try and meditate for 15 minutes every single day. (except for Monday because there will be so much going on!)

<h2> To do list for Week 2 </h2>
<ul>
  <li> Read Chapter 7 and 8 of POODR, if I don't have time I'll look up condensed blog posts</li>
  <li> Redo Andy's really good todo list application. And also if I've time the exercise Andy and I did on Monday, and the ping pong bracket generator we did on Sunday. </li>
  <li> Be much stronger and Sinatra and Active Record</li>
  <li> Meditate and Exercise everyday</li>
  <li> I will try and write a blog post every evening too, with a minimum of 3 during the week</li>
  <li> I will go floating on the weekend and buy a bike</li>
</ul>




