---
layout: post
title: "DBC: Week5:: Day 6"
date: 2015-05-09
categories: DBC Phase 2
---

Today I completed my P6, P7 and understood a large part of my P8. I thought a lot today about how do I learn, and how do I unstick myself when I do not know the next step. I found that getting good at tools which allow you to step through your code like debugger are amazing ways to plan your next step into code that you are not 100% comfortable with yet.

<h1>Technical Learning</h1>

I got familiar with JavaScript MVC patterns, with the OO JS Die challenge. I created an object constructor function, like so:

{% highlight ruby %}

var Die = function(){
  this.value = 0;
};

{% endhighlight %}

I then added properties to it like this:

{% highlight ruby %}
Die.prototype.roll = function(){
  this.value = Math.floor((Math.rand()*6)+1)
};

{% endhighlight %}

Then I made a Dice class, which had an empty contents array and a method add, which pushed a Die object into the Dice contents array and then appended a div called Die to the DOM!

I also created a controller for the app, where I instantiated a new Dice and then added eventListeneres to links which when clicked would call a method on the Dice object:

{% highlight ruby %}

game = new Dice();

$(document).ready(function(){
  $('.add').on('click', function(){
    game.add();
  });


  $('.roll').on('click', function(){
    game.rollAll();
  });
});

{% endhighlight %}

<h2> JQUERY and AJAX <h2>
P8 was a great challenge and I can't wait to get back to it tomorrow, I'd love to have it wrapped up by lunch. Originally it seemed pretty intimidating, but then I watched a video on AJAX calls by Jarred, and I also unlocked the power of 2 new tools, debugger and the chrome dev tools.

I understood the flow of AJAX, the server, JQUERY and the DOM really well by the end of the day. It kind of clicked for me, and I feel much better about playing with new concepts too, since I can shine a light on my confusion by using debugger intelligently.
I'll update more tomorrow if I manage to complete the challenge.

<h2>Goal For Sunday</h2>
<ol>
  <li>Complete P8</li>
  <li>Complete P9</li>
  <li>Redo P1 with Jquery</li>
  <li>Redo the Bitly challenge (since it touches on a lot of other challenges.</li>
  <li>Start on my P10. (An app to play voice messages to friends.</li>
</ol>
