---
layout: post
title: "DBC: Week4:: Day 3"
date: 2015-04-29
categories: DBC Phase 2
---

This is the first blog post of phase 2 and it's going to be short since I plan on going to bed soon!

On Monday and Tuesday I flew through the challenges but today I got a little bit stuck.

<h2> Monday </h2>

On Monday I made a program that was able to take a word as input and then produce anagrams for that word.

The key to the program working was to create a table of every word in it's original form as well as it's alphabetized form.

All anagrams for a word are the same when alphabetized. So then you take your input, sorted it alphbetically and then search the table for rows that match, and return their original form versions.

The trickiest part of that program was seeding the table with a file, and going over each line in the file, and turning it into a word object that had too attributes: it's original form and it's sorted form. Besides that the challenge wasn't too hard to understand.

<h2> Tuesday </h2>

I worked with Jason and created a version of Craiglist called CL Jr. I got introduced to restful routes by Jason in the first person. He was so fluid with making, editing and posting routes. It reminded me of a theme of learning that I keep on rediscovering. To learn, you should skim as much information as possible, and then just start writing and playing with your new concepts by typing and seeing what happens. Type, type and type to learn! (as opposed to focusing on reading or watching videos)


<h2> Wendesday </h2>

Today I fell a little bit off the pace. I had a headache and I misunderstood the challenge at the start of the day so I spent a lot of time in the wrong direction before I realized what was required of me. It wasn't all bad though because I got very familiar with writing routes and going back to erb files and then back to routes.

Areas that I needed to work on though that I've indexed for weekend work is:

<ol>
  <li>Finish Bit.ly</li>
    <ul>
      <li>Get validations and login and logout</li>
      <li>Get familiar with password encryption</li>
      <li>Get the site up on Heroku. </li>
      <li>This might take between 2-3 Hours </li>
    </ul>
  <li> Get all 5 P Projects done!!</li>
</ol>

<h2>Cultural Learning</h2>
Today was the first time in a while though that I was a little bit stressed since I felt that I was behind the rest of the cohort. I think it was a combination of having a bad headache as well as working by myself and heading in the wrong direction for a while. I think I'm going to check in with one of the counselors too to see if a chat would lift my mood. (I promised my future self I would if I started to get stressed!)
I'm also going to book a couch I think for this Friday and go over the Bitly exercise, that would be so useful to my understanding of what we've done so far!

I actually feel so much less stressed now after writing this blog post, as I've gotten my thoughts out and stored somewhere so I don't have to be mulling over them too much before I go to bed. I've also realized that things aren't as bad as they seem, now that I've talked through what's happened with me over the last few days.

(also quick tangent I ran up to the top of Coit tower on Monday and today to relieve stress! I went with Ginny from phase 3, it was unbelievable and a great habit to get into!)
