---
layout: post
title: "DBC: Week5:: Day 4"
date: 2015-04-29
categories: DBC Phase 2
---

Today we had to do group projects all day. Although I feel like I never really got into a good work flow. A fire alarm went off during the morning lecture, then by the time we got back, and white boarded schema we didn't code for long before everyone broke for lunch. Then we spent most of the day creating our database for the Survey Gorilla website which we are making.

<h2>Technical Learning </h2>

<ul>
  <li>AJAX</li>
  An AJAX call is not as hard as I thought it would be. You simply create an event listener. When the event is triggered you prevent the default.

  Then you can select a 'url' to send to the server, which will then access that url, with data you can send in a hash form.

  The code looks like this:

{% highlight ruby %}

$(".post-container").on('click', "a.vote-button", function(event){
    event.preventDefault();


    var url = $(this).attr("href"); //post/1/vote
    var ajaxRequest = $.ajax({

      // these two attributes determine which route in your controller will be called.

      url: url,
      type: 'GET',

      // the 'data' attribute determines what data is sent to the server.
      // The server will be able to access these values using the params hash.
      // If the server only needs to know information passed in the URL, this attribute is not necessary.

      // data: { bar: 'baz' }
    })


{% endhighlight %}





When AJAX calls the server, the server must retrieve data, and then send that data back to the AJAX call, in the form of a JSON object. The code looks in Sinatra looks like this:

{% highlight ruby %}

 post = Post.find(params[:id])

  post.votes.create(value: 1)

  content_type :json
  {id: post.id, points: post.points}.to_json

{% endhighlight %}

We then take the JSON object back in our JS file, and use that information to manipulate the DOM. The data returned to us, is in the form of a hash:


{% highlight ruby %}

   ajaxRequest.done(function(postHash){
      var id = "#" + postHash.id;
      var points = postHash.points;
      $(id).find('.points').text(points);
      $(id).find('.vote-button').css('color', 'red');
    })

{% endhighlight %}

We should also include options which will be triggered if the server didn't understand our AJAX call.

That is AJAX in it's most basic form. The advantage of using AJAX is that we do not have to refresh the page, when we manipulate the DOM which provides a much nicer user experience!



  <li>Call Back Functions </li>
We learned about call back functions today, which is a function within a function. The code looks as follows:

{% highlight ruby %}

someFunction = function(callback){
  callback(45);
}

someFunction(function(number){
  console.log(number)
})

{% endhighlight %}

This isn't too difficult when you think about what is going on, at the basic level a function is taking another function as it's argument.

  <li>P Projects </li>
  I have Friday, Saturday and Sunday to get the Survey_Gorilla working, and then try and complete as many P projects as possible. I would be so happy if I was able to finish all P's this weekend! I'll keep updating the blog with more to come!

</ul>

