---
layout: post
title: "DBC: Week 1:: Day 4"
date: 2015-04-09
categories: DBC Phase 1
---

Today I worked on two challenges, create a racer game and create a boogle board. It was intense, I learned a lot about creating Classes, and methods within classes. Traversing hashes and the each with index method.

<h1> Technical Learning </h1>

This blog post will be short because I came home latish and figure I'll need sleep before the Sudduko challenge tomorrow.

Briefly what I learned today, was:

<ol>
  <li>max_by</li>
  A method in ruby, you can apply it to a hash with a code block |k, v| it will sort the hash in terms of the biggest value or key.

  It will then return the k/v pairing in a two element array.

  <li> writing tests as the class builds up </li>
  I learned from Andy the benefit of testing each class method as you make it.

  <li>require "./file_path"</li>
  I learned how to require a file from another file, so you can require all of the code in another file, by writing require at the stop of the page, followed by the file path from the current folder. You should start the search from the current folder with a ./

  <li>each_with_index </li>

  Today I got much more comfortable with the each_with_index method. I used it over hashes, to take a k/v pairing in an array, and the index can be used elsewhere too.

</ol>

<h1> What I learned about my DBC routine </h1>

- Make food at the start of the week and use that too feed yourself quickly during the day. Andy took quite a short lunch today, which meant he could work on the code, while I was out for a while. I think having food ready to eat will allow me to work harder.

- Have a hard cut off time in DBC, when you'd like to be out the door. Make it around 8:15 latest.

- When you go home: rewrite all the challenges you did during the day, from scratch to see if you really know them. Also read other peoples code too if you've time and are feeling energetic enough. I think you'd benefit a lot from <b> studing for 2 hours each night at home alone </b>. Just rewriting your code, and reading other peoples. Then stop working at 10.

- Get a solid 8 hours sleep every night too. Being really well reseted is key to being energetic and ready to learn the next day!

- Wake up early and bolt out the door as quick as you can. You can get breakfast near DBC, and then do readings and watch videos before you have to show up on site at 8:45.